---
layout: post
title: Chickens
date: 2024-08-16 08:46:35 -0700
categories: elkenmist
published: false
---






Failing to catch an escaped chick humbled me.

I woke up one morning to find two chicks outside of their coop. I was in charge of them for a couple days as their caretakers had gone to see family. The task was pretty simple, to keep them fed and hydrated. The third task (which I had just discovered) was keeping them contained.

This amazing clip is my first thought anytime chickens are discussed:

<iframe
  width="600"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QhMo4WlBmGM"
  title="Werner Herzog on Chickens"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

And I could relate to this as I was desperately trying to wrangle them. What made me feel particularly pathetic was that the escaped chicks and I had the same intention to get them back with the other chicks. I just couldn't explain this to them, so I endlessly chased them around their enclosure. The enclosure was abutted against a building. There was just enough gap between the building and enclosure to cause an issue, the chicks could hide there. I tried blocking it off and this only led them to nearly get themselves trapped in the gap. Finally catching them involved patience and some agility with a net. 

When it happened again though, what really helped was having more than one person and I left it to the professionals (the folks who live at the farm).

---- 

Equanimity is a word that comes up a lot in Buddhism that may not be as familiar outside of it. The image I like to describe it is a steady ship in the turbulent ocean. 