---
layout: post
title: Seat Number 12
date: 2024-08-16 08:46:35 -0700
categories: robyn
published: false

---

I stared up at the ceiling fan, unable to fall asleep. I had an unintended roommate that evening in the form of a gecko. He wasn't my primary concern, nor was the heat. A much simpler problem occupied my mind: what time should I set my alarm for in the morning? 

I was in Bagan, the land of a thousand pagodas. And at sunrise you can see the pagodas lit up by the sky and hot air balloons (of the wealthy tourists) overhead. 

That all sounded nice. On the other hand, I always prioritize a good night's sleep. And there were many logistics involed. And.. And... 

As the list of pros and cons started to balloon in my head, I came up with one item on the "pro" side that felt decisive: my bus seat number. I had seat number 12 on the bus. Pretty much every possible configuration I could think of involved seat number 12 being a window. I'm quite good at sleeping against a window, so that decided it. I could sleep on the bus, so I set my alarm to wake up early.

My alarm did its job several hours later. I hopped on a bicycle and sweated my way through the streets and up the hill to a viewing area. I got there a few minutes early, with the sun just starting to peek out. As the sun rose, so did the hot air balloons. First just black shadows in the sky and then as colored groups, each fleet visually distinct in color. It was a pretty amazing juxtaposition, the thousand year old pagodas and the marvel of hot air balloons over them. Visually too – the slow march of rainbow nylon overhead contrasted starkly with the solidity of the ancient brick pagodas. While I wasn't willing to pay for the hot air balloon experience, they have always fascinated me since I read Twenty One Balloons as a child. It was a beautiful scene. I felt I had made the right decision.

To my planning mind, equally satisfying was what followed. All the logistics lined up, giving me enough time to bike back, eat breakfast, and get on the bus. I smiled as I boarded, seeing two seats per row, the first row starting with 1. No shenanigans, a standard bus configuration. The first one outlined above. Many things may vary by culture, apparently one consistent thing is how a bus's seats are laid out. I smiled as my plan from the previous night being actualized.

I approached my row, with confidence that seat #12 would be a window – and it was. I came upon a scene at seat 12 that my planning mind did not anticipate. Seat number 12 was already occupied. More than occupied, fully taken over. Sitting in the seat was a young mother and her baby. She had a blanket around her child, food and toys at the ready. I sat down in my new seat, number 11. The decision came easily and the smile of "being right" was overtaken by a smile of contentment.

<br>

---

<br>

One of the potentially radical teachings in Buddhism is on the sense doors. Normally, it's thought that humans have five
senses: touch, sight, sound, taste, smell. The sixth sense in the Buddha's teaching is "thinking".

Thoughts can feel much more important than our other senses. Particularly because they often occur in response to them. We can see a bear on TV and we can see a bear a few feet from us in the wild. Both are "seeing", they will prompt very different "feelings"^1 . 

So this isn't to say that thoughts are not valuable. But as a matter of first hand experience thoughts are just another arising in the mind. Meditation can help us see this clearly. 

As a matter of first hand experience this is true: thoughts are just another arising of the mind. This is not to
discount their power or potential value.

It also does mean we can have some wisdom about whether or not to take them seriously. In terms of my thoughts, planning
is chief among them. My long term planning isn't great, but my mind gets pleasure in a plan coming together. On a
recent drive to LA, I had chosen what felt like the optimal gas station to stop at. The exact moment I was exiting the freeway, my gas light went on. What a joy!

One thing the practice of meditation has helped me with is understanding that reality is not. And to
hold thoughts and plans loosely. Expectations not meeting reality being a primary source of suffering.

A helpful teaching from one of my teachers is to really discount the thoughts that occur while laying in bed at night
trying to fall asleep. It's rare for anything useful to arise in these moments, and most likely they will arise again if
they are truly wise.

https://dharmaseed.org/talks/player/57798.html


^1 This is also an important note about the senses, we often think of touch sense as something we are doing when this sense encapsulates all bodily sensations.
https://dharmaseed.org/talks/player/57798.html
