---
layout: post
title: Welcome
date: 2024-08-28 08:46:35 -0700
categories: welcome, introduction
---
This blog exists firstly to organize my thoughts and get them out of the head. That's for me. For you, dear reader, my
intention is to share stories that can point to a way of living that is more conducive to contentment. Hopefully it will
be entertaining too, although that remains to be seen.

I will structure some posts as a story followed by some basic teachings that relate to it. Other posts might just be
silly (like my homepage). If you'd like direct meditation related content there are lots of resources that I'd be happy
to share with you. So reach out if that interests you.

Everyone has their own unique path in this life and I don't expect yours to resemble mine. With that said, a natural
question (that arises frequently) is what made me passionate about meditation and the teachings of the Buddha. So here's
a rough timeline if you are curious:

December 2016: I quit my job at a prototypical SF startup. My brother Benjy was having a major surgery and I wanted to
be able to spend time and support him. Admittedly the decision was simplified by the startup not living up to the hype
(it was prototypical in this way, too). I had no immediate plans other than supporting my brother. So this left me with
plenty of time. Much of it was spent idling away – watching shows, reading, and listening to podcasts.

January 2017: One of the podcasts I regularly listened to was Waking Up with Sam Harris. He released an episode with
Joseph Goldstein called <a href="https://samharris.org/episode/SE4C737F8F2">Why Meditate?</a>. A few parts of the
conversation really resonated with me. Shortly after, I started a meditation practice using the 10% Happier App where
Joseph Goldstein does the intro course. I pretty quickly took to the practice, finding real value in the space that can
open between thought and action and seeing the patterns of my own mind.

April 2017: Benjy's surgery, which removed a kidney, his gallbladder, and part of his intestines, did not successfully
remove its intended target: the cancer in his stomach. The diagnosis was grim. I knew I wanted to be able to support him
as best I could. My intentions were clear and yet I saw my ego, my emotional barriers, and neuroses as blocking myself
from being fully present. Meditation practice increased my capacity for support.

August 2017: A discussion point on that podcast episode is the encouragement of doing an intro meditation retreat. This
is a time where one joins a group all sitting and practicing together in silence for about a week. I went to a young
adult retreat at Spirit Rock. I found the experience transformative, heart-opening, and it gave me a new and kinder
access to the landscape of my own mind.

October-December 2017: Benjy's body slowly and then quickly lost all of it's strength. I felt like I could be there with
him with more presence and love up until his last breath thanks to my continued practice. I intend to write more about
him in the future (
<a href="/benjy-celebration-of-life-speech.html">here is a starting point, my speech from his celebration of life</a>
).

The tragedy really clarified some things for me, around the fragility of life and finding contentment that is not bound
to conditions. Since then I have continued finding value and meaning in the practice. I am involved with a community in
the Bay Area: IMC and IRC. And I have spent many months on meditation retreats and practiced in India and Burma.

I have continued to find more value in the practice, in finding the capacities and limitations of my own emotional and
mental landscape. This is some of what I hope to share on this blog.
