There's some irony in how worrying about what time to wake up can be an impediment to sleep. That decision kept my mind
too busy to sleep as a I lay in bed in my tiny room. It was my last night in Bagan, the miraculous part of Burma filled
with pagodas. Waking up at sunrise to see the first light hit the pagodas and the hot air balloons taking off over them
sounded pretty amazing. And yet, I always try to prioritize a good night's sleep.

As my mind raced, I found it hard to close my eyes. I stared first over to the gecko who had decided to be my roommate
that night and then up at the slowly spinning ceiling fan as I weighed my options. I had already set up all the
logistics so that the choice would be maximally easy to make. I had locked up rented bike that was ready to go and got
the info for a good lookout point. I mapped it out and ensured myself there was enough time for breakfast and catching
my bus. It was just the decision itself: what time to set my alarm.

The pros and cons list started growing in my head. I came up with one item on the "pro" side that felt decisive: my bus
seat number. I had seat number 12 on the bus. Pretty much every possible configuration I could think of involved seat
number 12 being a window. I'm quite good at sleeping against the window, so that decided it. I could sleep on the bus,
so I set my alarm to wake up early.

Flash forward not quite enough hours. I woke up, pedaled hard and made it up the hill. I was only slightly self
conscious of being the only pedal bicycle on the hill (everyone else who arrived had taken mopeds). As the sun rose it
made for a pretty spectular sight – the pagodas looked painted like pastel. And then the hot air balloons started
migrating overhead, first as shadows on the horizon and then as swarms of colors. Each company had visually distinct
balloons. The slow march of rainbow nylon overhead contrasted starkly with the solidity of the ancient brick pagodas.

While I wasn't willing to pay for the hot air balloon experience, they have always fascinated me since I read Twenty One
Balloons as a child. It was a beautiful scene. I felt I had made the right decision.

To my planning mind, equally satisfying was what followed: all the logistics lined up, giving me enough time to bike
back, eat breakfast and get on the bus. I smiled as I boarded, seeing two seats per row, the first row starting with 1.
My previous night's analysis proved correct. A standard bus seating chart. Many things may vary by culture, one
consistent thing is how a bus seating chart is laid out.

I approached my row, with confidence that seat #12 would be a window – and it was. I looked at the seat and found a
scene that my planning mind could not have anticipated. Seat number 12 was already occupied. Sitting in the seat was a
young mother and her baby. She had a blanket around her child, food and toys at the ready. This made the decision
obvious, there wasn't even a second of thought. My mind was quiet and content as I sat down in my new seat, number 11.

<br>

---

<br>

One of the potentially radical teachings in Buddhism is on the sense doors. Normally, it's thought that humans have five
senses: touch, sight, sound, taste, smell. The sixth sense in the teaching is "thinking".

As a matter of first hand experience this is true: thoughts are just another arising of the mind. This is not to
discount their power or potential value.

It also does mean we can have some wisdom about whether or not to take them seriously. In terms of my thoughts, planning
is chief among them. My long term planning isn't great, but my mind gets pleasure in the perfect route somewhere. On a
recent drive to LA, my gas light went on as I was exiting the freeway to go to my predetermined gas station. What a joy!

One thing the practice of meditation has helped me with though is letting go of the plan when it meets reality. And to
hold thoughts and plans loosely. Expectations not meeting reality being a primary source of suffering.

A helpful teaching from one of my teachers is to really discount the thoughts that occur while laying in bed at night
trying to fall asleep. It's rare for anything useful to arise in these moments, and most likely they will arise again if
they are truly wise.

https://dharmaseed.org/talks/player/57798.html
